project-proposal.md, before:

Project Proposal
===

### Background and Motivation. 

Discuss your motivations and reasons for choosing this project, especially any background or research interests that may have influenced your decision.

Shannon is the founder of a non-profit organization called YBank which aims to increase investment in adolescent health. A project being developed at YBank involves improving adherence to HIV medication amongst HIV positive youth, as they have the poorer mortality rates than adults and children. Inspired by this research, we decided to focus our final project on exploring how HIV has evolved over time in the adolescent population. 

### Project Objectives. 

Provide the primary questions you are trying to answer with your visualization. What would you like to learn and accomplish? List the benefits.

Through this project we would like to explore:

1. How the HIV epidemic has affected adolescents across the world in terms of prevalence and mortality
2. Which regions and countries are most affected by adolescent HIV over time
3. The relative disease burden placed on adolescents within countries
4. Differences in the disease burden between sexes and if this varies with time or geography

The project will provide a historical perspective of how the disease has evolved in this understudied population. The project will also serve as a tool to understand the current state of the disease amongst adolescents globally. We may also identify patterns across or within countries that can be the subject of future study.  

### Data. 

From where and how are you collecting your data? If appropriate, provide a link to your data sources.

We are using data from the Global Burden of DIsease Study which ranges from 1990 to 2013. The data can be found at (http://ghdx.healthdata.org/record/global-burden-disease-study-2013-gbd-2013-hiv-tuberculosis-and-malaria-incidence-prevalence). We may also add in additional data on country GDP which we will source from the World Bank. 

### Data Processing. 

Do you expect to do substantial data cleanup? What quantities do you plan to derive from your data? How will data processing be implemented?

### Visualization. 

How will you display your data? Provide some general ideas that you have for the visualization design. Include sketches of your design.

### Must-Have Features. 

These are features without which you would consider your project to be a failure.

[Work In Progress]

1. Adolescent AIDS prevalence rate for a given year on a global map
2. Adolescent AIDS death rate for a given year on a global map
3. Must show total number on selecting a particular country
4. Must have a comparative visualization showing % rate difference between global population vs adolescent population
5. Must have a comparative visualization showing % rate difference between male and female adolescents
6. Visualization must have a way to toggle between prevalence and death data
7. All the visualizations must be updated to reflect the correct data when user toggles a selection
8. Must have a time slider for users to choose year for which they want to see the data
9. Trend analysis visualization to show the trend for all the countries over the years
10. Must have a filtering mechanism in trend visualization to allow users to filter by country


### Optional Features. 

[Work In Progress]

1. Make trend svg lines clickable to show country specific data
2. Show co-relation between gdp and adolescent aids
3. 

Those features which you consider would be nice to have, but not critical.

### Project Schedule. 

Make sure that you plan your work so that you can avoid a big rush right before the final project deadline, and delegate different modules and responsibilities among your team members. Write this in terms of weekly deadlines.

Our project schedule is as follows:

Week 11: 

- Baishi/Shannon: analyse the data and create proposalvisualizations for detailed views to proceed the map
- Sabina: create a prototype of the map visualization
- Shannon: parse and clean the dataset

Week 12:

- Baishi/Shannon: prototype assigned visualizations that were selected for inclusion in the project
- Sabina: incorporate feedback/changes into the map visualization


Week 13:

- Baishi: incorporate feedback/changes into assigned visualizations
- Sabina: create interactive features between visualization components
- Shannon: incorporate feedback/changes into assigned visualizations

Week 14:

- All: complete interaction between visualization features, complete debugging, incorporate suggested changes and add annotations (if desired)

Commit message:

Add updates to project proposal

project-proposal.md, after:

Project Proposal
===

### Background and Motivation. 

Shannon is the founder of a non-profit organization called YBank which aims to increase investment in adolescent health. A project being developed at YBank involves improving adherence to HIV medication amongst HIV positive youth, as they have the poorer mortality rates than adults and children. Inspired by this research, we decided to focus our final project on exploring how HIV has evolved over time in the adolescent population. 

### Project Objectives. 

Through this project we would like to explore:

1. How the HIV epidemic has affected adolescents across the world in terms of prevalence and mortality
2. Which regions and countries are most affected by adolescent HIV over time
3. The relative disease burden placed on adolescents within countries
4. Differences in the disease burden between sexes and if this varies with time or geography

The project will provide a historical perspective of how the disease has evolved in this understudied population. The project will also serve as a tool to understand the current state of the disease amongst adolescents globally. We may also identify patterns across or within countries that can be the subject of future study.  

### Data. 

We are using data from the Global Burden of Disease Study which ranges from 1990 to 2013. The data contains mortality, prevalence and incidence data for multiple age groups, sexes and countries. The data can be found at (http://ghdx.healthdata.org/record/global-burden-disease-study-2013-gbd-2013-hiv-tuberculosis-and-malaria-incidence-prevalence). We may also add in additional data on country GDP which we will source from the World Bank. 

### Data Processing. 

Do you expect to do substantial data cleanup? What quantities do you plan to derive from your data? How will data processing be implemented?

### Visualization. 

How will you display your data? Provide some general ideas that you have for the visualization design. Include sketches of your design.

### Must-Have Features. 

These are features without which you would consider your project to be a failure.

[Work In Progress]

1. Adolescent AIDS prevalence rate for a given year on a global map
2. Adolescent AIDS death rate for a given year on a global map
3. Must show total number on selecting a particular country
4. Must have a comparative visualization showing % rate difference between global population vs adolescent population
5. Must have a comparative visualization showing % rate difference between male and female adolescents
6. Visualization must have a way to toggle between prevalence and death data
7. All the visualizations must be updated to reflect the correct data when user toggles a selection
8. Must have a time slider for users to choose year for which they want to see the data
9. Trend analysis visualization to show the trend for all the countries over the years
10. Must have a filtering mechanism in trend visualization to allow users to filter by country


### Optional Features. 

[Work In Progress]

1. Make trend svg lines clickable to show country specific data
2. Show co-relation between gdp and adolescent aids
3. 

Those features which you consider would be nice to have, but not critical.

### Project Schedule. 

Our project schedule is as follows:

Week 11: Update meeting April 10

- Baishi/Shannon: analyse the data and create proposal visualizations for detailed views to proceed the map
- Sabina: create a prototype of the map visualization
- Shannon: parse and clean the dataset

Week 12: Update meeting April 17

- Baishi/Shannon: prototype assigned visualizations that were selected for inclusion in the project
- Sabina: incorporate feedback/changes into the map visualization


Week 13: Update meeting after TF feedback session

- Baishi: incorporate feedback/changes into assigned visualizations
- Sabina: create interactive features between visualization components
- Shannon: incorporate feedback/changes into assigned visualizations

Week 14: Update meeting May 5

- All: complete interaction between visualization features, complete debugging, incorporate suggested changes and add annotations (if desired)
